README.md, before:

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/UnitVectorY-Labs/ghprmerge.svg)](https://github.com/UnitVectorY-Labs/ghprmerge/releases/latest) [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) [![Active](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Active-green)](https://guide.unitvectorylabs.com/bestpractices/status/#active) [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/UnitVectorY-Labs/ghprmerge)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/UnitVectorY-Labs/ghprmerge)

# ghprmerge

A command-line tool to automatically evaluate, merge, and optionally rebase GitHub pull requests sharing the same source branch across an organization.

Use case: merging automated dependency update pull requests (e.g., Dependabot) without requiring clicking through each repository individually.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Set your GitHub token
export GITHUB_TOKEN=ghp_xxxxxxxxxxxx

# Check version
ghprmerge --version

# Analyze what would be merged (default mode)
ghprmerge --org myorg --source-branch dependabot/

# Rebase out-of-date branches
ghprmerge --org myorg --source-branch dependabot/ --rebase

# Merge ready PRs (that are already up-to-date)
ghprmerge --org myorg --source-branch dependabot/ --merge

# Merge PRs even if behind (skip rebase requirement)
ghprmerge --org myorg --source-branch dependabot/ --merge --skip-rebase

# Use --confirm to review before taking actions
ghprmerge --org myorg --source-branch dependabot/ --rebase --confirm

# Show all repos (including those with no matching PRs)
ghprmerge --org myorg --source-branch dependabot/ --verbose

# Disable colored output
ghprmerge --org myorg --source-branch dependabot/ --no-color
```

## Documentation

- [Purpose & Philosophy](docs/README.md) - Design goals and safety model
- [Usage Guide](docs/USAGE.md) - Complete command-line reference
- [Examples](docs/EXAMPLES.md) - Practical workflows
- [Installation](docs/INSTALL.md) - Installation instructions

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.

Commit message:

Refactor ghprmerge behavior for improved user experience and output clarity
- Update README and USAGE documentation to reflect changes in behavior regarding checks and output.
- Remove the `--quiet` flag, making it the default behavior to suppress repos with no matching pull requests.
- Enhance the `--verbose` flag to stream repository results during scanning, including those without matching pull requests.
- Modify the console output to clear pending actions and prompt results more effectively.
- Implement logic to allow merging of pull requests even when no checks are configured.
- Adjust the handling of repository results to ensure clarity in output during both scanning and execution phases.
- Update tests to cover new behaviors and ensure existing functionality remains intact.

README.md, after:

[![GitHub release](https://img.shields.io/github/release/UnitVectorY-Labs/ghprmerge.svg)](https://github.com/UnitVectorY-Labs/ghprmerge/releases/latest) [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT) [![Active](https://img.shields.io/badge/Status-Active-green)](https://guide.unitvectorylabs.com/bestpractices/status/#active) [![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/UnitVectorY-Labs/ghprmerge)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/UnitVectorY-Labs/ghprmerge)

# ghprmerge

A command-line tool to automatically evaluate, merge, and optionally rebase GitHub pull requests sharing the same source branch across an organization.

Use case: merging automated dependency update pull requests (e.g., Dependabot) without requiring clicking through each repository individually.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Set your GitHub token
export GITHUB_TOKEN=ghp_xxxxxxxxxxxx

# Check version
ghprmerge --version

# Analyze what would be merged (default mode)
ghprmerge --org myorg --source-branch dependabot/

# Rebase out-of-date branches
ghprmerge --org myorg --source-branch dependabot/ --rebase

# Merge ready PRs (that are already up-to-date)
ghprmerge --org myorg --source-branch dependabot/ --merge

# PRs with no checks configured are allowed; pending checks still block merging

# Merge PRs even if behind (skip rebase requirement)
ghprmerge --org myorg --source-branch dependabot/ --merge --skip-rebase

# Use --confirm to review pending actions before taking action
ghprmerge --org myorg --source-branch dependabot/ --rebase --confirm

# Stream all repo results as they are scanned
ghprmerge --org myorg --source-branch dependabot/ --verbose

# Disable colored output
ghprmerge --org myorg --source-branch dependabot/ --no-color
```

## Documentation

- [Purpose & Philosophy](docs/README.md) - Design goals and safety model
- [Usage Guide](docs/USAGE.md) - Complete command-line reference
- [Examples](docs/EXAMPLES.md) - Practical workflows
- [Installation](docs/INSTALL.md) - Installation instructions

## License

MIT License - see [LICENSE](LICENSE) for details.
